[RC2] Requirements and Testing Principles (#1738)
cntt-n/CNTT: doc/ref_cert/README.md

[<< Back](../)

# CNTT Reference Conformance (RC) Requirements and Testing Principles

> The objective each RC workstream is to provide an automated mechanism to validate either a network function (NF) or a cloud infrastructure against a standard set of requirements defined by the associated Reference Architecture (RA).  Through this validation mechanism, a provider of either NFs or cloud infrastructure will be able to test their conformance to the RA.  This will ease the integration of NFs into operator environments that host compatible cloud infrastructures, thereby reducing cost, complexity, and time of integration.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The objective of each RC workstream is to provide an automated mechanism to validate either a network function (NF) or a cloud infrastructure against a standard set of requirements defined by the Reference Model (RM) and associated Reference Architecture (RA).  Through this validation mechanism, a provider of either NFs or cloud infrastructure will be able to test their conformance to the RM and RA.  This will ease the integration of NFs into operator environments that host compatible cloud infrastructures, thereby reducing cost, complexity, and time of integration.
```

Reviewer: The reason for including RM is that in other places within the documents include RM requirements

The overall workstream requires the close coordination of the following:

**Requirements** - The agreed upon capabilities and conditions that a compliant NF or cloud infrastructure must provide or satisfy. All requirements will be hosted and maintained in the RA.
**Tests** - The verification mechanism that determines that a given NF or cloud infrastructure complies with one or more requirements.
**Conformance Specifications** - The definition of the requirements, tests, and circumstances (test case integration, etc.) that must be met to be deemed conformant.

If there is no clear traceability and strong links between these 3 components, then it becomes difficult to determine if a NF or cloud infrastructure is compliant. With this in mind, below are the set of recommended principles for each of the three components to follow. Adherence to these principles will provide the following:

> 

Reviewer: nits - Consistency:
One of the bullets in the list that follows ends with a period (".") but others don't

* Enable clear progress tracking and linkage between independent projects (i.e. know what has and hasn't been covered, and track changes over time)

> * Help users better understand mandatory requirements

Author: ```suggestion
* Help users better understand if they meet requirements
```

> * Provide a stable set of point-in-time requirements and tests to achieve conformance.  

Author: ```suggestion
* Provide a stable set of point-in-time requirements and tests to achieve conformance
```

> * Reduce ambiguity in testing, requirements, and conformance

Reviewer 2: I would moderate this part. Even without any traceability, OpenStack testing easily highlights any problem in your infrastructure.The question is more about accepting or not the failure which the traceability may help (e.g. is it about an optional service in CNTT?). If no VM boots in the simplest test cases, we have known we can't onboard any VNF even before CNTT.

Author: Do you have a suggestion on what needs to be changed here?

Reviewer 2: It would simply remove "Help users better understand mandatory requirements". I would consider this objective as out of RC (it's more about the referent architecture which defines the requirement as mandatory).

"If there is no clear traceability and strong links between these 3 components, then it becomes difficult to determine if a NF or cloud infrastructure is compliant". Traceability is more about CNTT requirement coverage and somehow project management.

Author: edited it slightly to "understand if they meet requirements"

## Requirement Principles
Requirements Principles can be found in the [RM Principles](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/chapter00.md#2.0)

## Testing Principles

> * There must be traceability between test cases and requirement being validated

Reviewer: similar comment on bullets in the list that follows about ending with a period (".")

* Failures should provide additional content to inform the user where or how the requirement was violated (ex: which file or resource violated the requirement).  Put another way, don’t require the user to read the test to understand what went wrong

> * Testing tools should support selection of tests based on category or profile.

Author: I don't think this is saying it needs to be in the test case. This principle could also be met with multiple containers.

> * Testing tools should support selection of tests based on category or profile.

Reviewer 2: ok if it could be different docker lists based on category or profile.

> * Result reports must clearly delineate violations of mandatory vs. optional requirements

Reviewer 2: No. The test case shouldn't contain any CNTT requirement in code. It's up to OVP result verification.

Author: this is not about the test case, it is about the results. It is a principle rather than the implementation

Reviewer 3: Specifically the implementation for traceability and delineation are not specified.  An implementation to determine if a test is mandatory or optional for CNTT can be independent of the test case code if desired -- up to the implementer of that test case.

Reviewer 2: Yes but RC is only about mandatory requirements.

Reviewer 3: +1 to remove 
> * Result reports must clearly delineate violations of mandatory vs. optional requirements
if RC2 will only run test cases covering mandatory requirements

Reviewer 3: @acmacm is +1 (verbal on RC2 call) to remove

Reviewer 4: +1 to remove

> * Tests must be available to run locally by both CNF and NFVI providers

Reviewer: CNTT is moving away from NFVI -- replaced with "cloud infrastructure"
```suggestion
* Tests must be available to run locally by both CNF and cloud infrastructure providers
```

> * Failures should provide additional content to inform the user where or how the requirement was violated (ex: which file or resource violated the requirement).  Put another way, don’t require the user to read the test to understand what went wrong.
> * Testing tools should support selection of tests based on category or profile.
> * Result reports must clearly delineate violations of mandatory vs. optional requirements
> * Tests must be available to run locally by both CNF and cloud infrastructure providers
> * Testing tools must produce machine-readable result formats that can be used as input into the badging program (OVP already defines a format).

Author: ```suggestion
* Failures should provide additional content to inform the user where or how the requirement was violated (ex: which file or resource violated the requirement).  Put another way, don’t require the user to read the test to understand what went wrong
* Testing tools should support selection of tests based on category or profile.
* Result reports must clearly delineate violations of mandatory vs. optional requirements
* Tests must be available to run locally by both CNF and cloud infrastructure providers
* Testing tools must produce machine-readable result formats that can be used as input into the badging program (OVP already defines a format)
```

## Conformance Specifications
* Conformance specifications must refer to or define the *versioned* requirements that must be satisfied
* Conformance specifications must refer to the *versioned* test implementations that must be used to validate the requirements
* Conformance specifications must define the expected preconditions and environment requirements for any test tooling
* Conformance specifications must define which tests must be executed in the given testing tools to achieve conformance

> * The conformance specification must provide the mapping between tests and requirements to demonstrate traceability and coverage.

Author: ```suggestion
* The conformance specifications must provide the mapping between tests and requirements to demonstrate traceability and coverage.
```

> # CNTT Reference Conformance (RC) Test Case Integration

Reviewer: The paragraph that follows needs to be edited

Author: which part of it? Would it be more related to #1725 ?

Reviewer: @xmulligan Lines 41 to 49. 
" ... must fulfill the following test case integration requirements ..." -- what does "following refer to?
"... guarantee a smooth overall integration" -- can we delete "smooth" as not sure what it "would look like"
"The new RC2 stream asks to move them in this common place applicable to all CNTT conformance suites." -- to move "what"? "in this common place" - what is "this common place" referring to.

Author: I think that is outside the scope of this PR since the paragraph you are referring to is from #1725. Can you open a conversation there or issue?

Author: @collivier can you help here

Author: @pgoyal01 I created #1863 to cover this so I will resolve the conversation now

[<< Back](../)

# CNTT Reference Conformance (RC) Requirements and Testing Principles

> The objective each RC workstream is to provide an automated mechanism to measure either a network function (NF) or a cloud infrastructure with a standard set of requirements defined by the associated Reference Architecture (RA).  Through this measurement, a provider of either NFs or cloud infrastructure will be able to test their conformance to the RA.  This will ease the integration of NFs into operator environments that host compatible cloud infrastructures, thereby reducing cost, complexity, and time of integration.

Reviewer: The first sentence is awkward -- what does it mean to "measure" a network function?

Author: how about "test"?

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The objective each RC workstream is to provide an automated mechanism to validate either a network function (NF) or a cloud infrastructure against a standard set of requirements defined by the associated Reference Architecture (RA).  Through this validation mechanism, a provider of either NFs or cloud infrastructure will be able to test their conformance to the RA.  This will ease the integration of NFs into operator environments that host compatible cloud infrastructures, thereby reducing cost, complexity, and time of integration.
```

> The overall program requires the close coordination of the following:

Author: ```suggestion
The overall workstream requires the close coordination of the following:
```

> **Requirements** - The agreed upon rules and recommendations to which a compliant NF or cloud infrastructure must adhere. All requirements will be hosted and maintianed in the RA.

Reviewer: Requirements are typically capabilities and conditions that must be met/satisfied by a solution. Typo: "maintianed"
```suggestion
**Requirements** - The agreed upon capabilities and conditions that a compliant NF or cloud infrastructure must provide or satisfy. All requirements will be hosted and maintained in the RA.
```

**Tests** - The verification mechanism that determines that a given NF or cloud infrastructure complies with one or more requirements.
**Conformance Specifications** - The definition of the requirements, tests, and circumstances (test case integration, etc.) that must be met to be deemed conformant.

> If there is not clear traceability and strong links between these 3 components, then it becomes difficult to determine if a NF or cloud infrastructure is compliant. With this in mind, below are the set of recommended principles for each of the three components to follow. Adherence to these principles will provide the following:

Reviewer 5: ```suggestion
If there is no clear traceability and strong links between these 3 components, then it becomes difficult to determine if a NF or cloud infrastructure is compliant. With this in mind, below are the set of recommended principles for each of the three components to follow. Adherence to these principles will provide the following:
```

* Enable clear progress tracking and linkage between independent projects (i.e. know what has and hasn't been covered, and track changes over time)
* Help users better understand mandatory requirements
* Provide a stable set of point-in-time requirements and tests to achieve conformance.  
* Reduce ambiguity in testing, requirements, and conformance

> ## Requirement Principles

Reviewer: These Requirements Principles need to be at the CNTT root level as RM and RA's have to conform to them

Author: Where do you suggest they go then? Also do you think we should remove this section entirely or not?

Reviewer: @xmulligan One possible place would be the [Principles](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/tech/README.md#2-principles) section in tech/README. Currently, this section consists of [2.1 Overall Principles](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/tech/README.md#21-overall-principles) and [2.2 Architectural Principles](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/tech/README.md#22-architectural-principles).

Author: The links above are broken and I can't seem to find which parts you are pointing to. Can you repost them?

Reviewer: @xmulligan Sorry, content got reorganised:
[Principles](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/chapter00.md#principles): https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/chapter00.md#principles

[Overall Principles](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/chapter00.md#overall-principles): https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/chapter00.md#overall-principles

[Architectural Principles](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/chapter00.md#architectural-principles): https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/chapter00.md#architectural-principles

Author: Thanks moved to #1797

> ## Requirement Principles
> * Mandatory requirements must be defined in such a way that they are unambiguously verifiable via automated testing
> * Requirements should be publishable or extractable into a machine readable format such as JSON

Author: ```suggestion
## Requirement Principles
Requirements Principles can be found in the [RM Principles](https://github.com/cntt-n/CNTT/blob/master/doc/common/chapter00.md#2.0)
```

## Testing Principles

> * Tests must provide a mapping to the requirement being validated

Author: ```suggestion
* There must be traceability between test cases and requirement being validated
```

> * Failures should explicitly reference the requirement IDs violated (optionally they can provide a link or text of the requirement)

Author: ```suggestion

```

Author: this should be added as a requirement for the CNTT implementation not a testing principle

[<< Back](../)

# CNTT Reference Conformance (RC) Requirements and Testing Principles

The objective each RC workstream is to provide an automated mechanism to measure either a network function (NF) or a cloud infrastructure with a standard set of requirements defined by the associated Reference Architecture (RA).  Through this measurement, a provider of either NFs or cloud infrastructure will be able to test their conformance to the RA.  This will ease the integration of NFs into operator environments that host compatible cloud infrastructures, thereby reducing cost, complexity, and time of integration.

> The overall program requires the close coordination of the following:

Reviewer 2: Program seems induced by a copy/paste from OVP. I would consider it as irrelevant here.

Author: How is it irrelevant? It is describing what the RC does. It has nothing to do with OVP

**Requirements** - The agreed upon rules and recommendations to which a compliant NF or cloud infrastructure must adhere. All requirements will be hosted and maintianed in the RA.
**Tests** - The verification mechanism that determines that a given NF or cloud infrastructure complies with one or more requirements.
**Conformance Specifications** - The definition of the requirements, tests, and circumstances (test case integration, etc.) that must be met to be deemed conformant.

If there is not clear traceability and strong links between these 3 components, then it becomes difficult to determine if a NF or cloud infrastructure is compliant. With this in mind, below are the set of recommended principles for each of the three components to follow. Adherence to these principles will provide the following:

* Enable clear progress tracking and linkage between independent projects (i.e. know what has and hasn't been covered, and track changes over time)

> * Help users better understand mandatory vs. optional requirements

Reviewer 2: RCs are only about MUST requirements and must be explicit in the overall principals.
I think it's more about RA to be clear regarding optional and mandatory requirements.

Author: Comittee agrees, remove optional requirements from testing

* Provide a stable set of point-in-time requirements and tests to achieve conformance.  
* Reduce ambiguity in testing, requirements, and conformance

## Requirement Principles

> * All requirements must be assigned a requirements ID and not be embedded in narrative text.  This is to ensure that readers do not have to infer if a requirement exists and is applicable

Reviewer 2: I'm not clear which level is addressed here. single test or test case? Most of the test frameworks already leverage on single test id (see Tempest) but it's not at the test case level.

Author: this should be moved to a higher level where the requirements are held

* Requirements must have a unique ID for tracking and reference purposes

> * The requirement ID should include a prefix to delineate the source project

Reviewer 2: copy/paste from OVP?

> * Requirements must state the level of compliance (ex: MUST, SHOULD, MAY) per RFC 2119

Reviewer 2: about RA

* Mandatory requirements must be defined in such a way that they are unambiguously verifiable via automated testing
* Requirements should be publishable or extractable into a machine readable format such as JSON
* Requirements should include information about the impact of non-conformance and the rationale for their existence

## Testing Principles

> * Tests must provide a mapping to the requirement being validated

Reviewer 2: The test framework are usually used by many users and then not only by CNTT.
The mapping should rather be done in CNTT done and highlighted by the test results verification (e.g. OVP web portal)

Author: Is there an edit you are suggesting here?

> * Failures should explicitly reference the requirement IDs violated (optionally they can provide a link or text of the requirement)

Reviewer 2: May ask for too much logics. It seems disconnected from the existing RC test frameworks.

Author: Is this a disagreement with the principle or implementation?

* Failures should provide additional content to inform the user where or how the requirement was violated (ex: which file or resource violated the requirement).  Put another way, don’t require the user to read the test to understand what went wrong.

> * Testing tools should allow users to select between validation of mandatory and optional requirements (if validation of optional requirements is supported).

Reviewer 2: No. Optional requirements are out of CNTT RC scope. copy/paste from OVP?

* Testing tools should support selection of tests based on category or profile.
* Result reports must clearly delineate violations of mandatory vs. optional requirements
* Tests must be available to run locally by both CNF and NFVI providers
* Testing tools must produce machine-readable result formats that can be used as input into the badging program (OVP already defines a format).

## Conformance Specifications
* Conformance specifications must refer to or define the *versioned* requirements that must be satisfied
* Conformance specifications must refer to the *versioned* test implementations that must be used to validate the requirements
* Conformance specifications must define the expected preconditions and environment requirements for any test tooling
* Conformance specifications must define which tests must be executed in the given testing tools to achieve conformance

> * The conformance specification must provide the mapping between tests and requirements to demonstrate traceability and coverage.

Reviewer 2: How do we manage the 1000+ remaining Cloud (we are not special) requirements not explicitly written in RA1?
